The article I found is titled “Parent Involvement in Elementary Language Arts: A Program Model". It’s author is Marge Simic. The article was found on the ERIC DIGEST website. The author organizes parent involvement into three levels of increasing involvement. monitoring, informing. and participation. At the monitoring level the schools make parents aware of the school situation. It can be done by informal
methods. Weekly bulletins, open houses, and invitations to school activities are a few
examples. At the informing level the parents are informed about the policies.
procedures, and expectations of the classroom. The contact is formal and direct. This communication can be done through parent-teacher conferences, home visits, and
phone calls. Parents should give the teachers feedback and progress of activities and
performance at home. At the participation level the parents become actively involved
in the classroom with teachers. Parents can be aides, or volunteers, or do
presentations. Parents are encouraged to provide supportive instruction at home using
reading and writing strategies and methods that are similar to what they are doing in
the classroom. In one particular program the teachers informed the parents through letters that the students would be integrating reading and writing in the language arts block. Parents were given details of strategies. Parents and students were encouraged to share reading, ideas, and thoughts at home about the books. After a while a letter went home describing positive experiences and asking for parent volunteers to help read
and discuss. Later on the writing process was explained in a parent letter and skills were defined so parents could help at home. Parents were asked again to come and help
with the finishing of the books Book club orders were sent borne so parents and
children could discuss and select books for the literature group. The teacher provided
opportunities for parent input and also the opportunity to donate supplies. It takes
work to get parents involved. but the rewards for the student are worth it.